Have you ever been given an assignment that seemed overwhelming?
Jonah experienced self-doubt and fear when he was told to warn the Ninevites of their impending destruction.
But he learned to trust in Jehovah and he received the courage and the wisdom to do the work.
In just 40 days more, Ninevah will be overthrown.
Jonah never imagined his experience would be portrayed in a film meant to encourage millions of people in our day.
The volunteers who made this movie had their own Jonah-like challenges.
For example, the storm, the big fish, and the city of Ninevah,
these elements were unlike anything that the audio video services department had ever filmed.
Careful planning and full reliance on Jehovah would be required to portray these accurately and within budget.
The cast received specialized training to learn their lines and portray the proper emotions for each scene.
The sets were carefully researched and designed.
With set construction taking place at various Bethel facilities, as well as in Southern California.
Costumes, accurate to the time period in region, were designed.
And makeup was also researched to convey the appropriate styles of the era.
In early 2017, filming began at Mount Ebo.
He claims Jehovah sent a fish to swallow.
Why are you sleeping? Get off! Call out to your God!
Later, production moved to Southern California.
Where brothers and sisters from local congregations provided meals, tents, vehicles, housing, and most other logistical needs.
The outpouring of enthusiastic support was a clear demonstration of their love for Jehovah and his people.
When it was time to create the boat sequences, production moved to Louisiana to make use of a large water tank located there.
Remote volunteers assisted with the preparation of the tank, as well as labor and materials needed to construct the boat.
Additionally, they provided rescue, diverse support, and meals for the crew.
A non-witness consultant had some interesting observations on what he saw.
There's a certain piece about this place. The prayer in the morning is good.
It works. There's no politics on set.
There's a mission and a goal set for the day. It's well explained. It's like a family.
Producers, directors would be rather jealous that it's a well-run tidy operation.
Production finally ended back at the Watchtower Educational Center in Patterson.
In a large outdoor set designed to replicate several streets and a courtyard of Nineveh.
Once principal shooting was completed, visual effects needed to be added to create realistic environments.
That would make the story even more immersive. Add to that, hundreds of hours spent in the editing rooms, stitching the pieces together to create a cohesive story.
But still more work was needed. Music had to be composed, and sound effects added.
King David set at Psalm 40, 1 through 3.
I earnestly hoped in Jehovah. He made my footing secure.
Many will look on in awe and put their trust in Jehovah.
The volunteers who worked on the Jonah drama found David's words to be true.
Listen to just some of the expressions of appreciation from viewers.
Thank you for all your hard work. We laughed and cried and sat at the edge of our seats and the lessons hit home for each of us.
I try to imagine how to be courageous and boldly preached like Jonah. I no longer felt fear.
Thank you.
Much like Jonah, the cast and crew involved in the making of this film were reminded continuously.
That no matter how challenging the assignment, Jehovah will help us face it.